Document Grammar for the EDL language. (#19)
openenclave/oeedger8r-cpp: docs/Grammar.md

# EDL Grammar

This document describes the grammar for the EDL language in [Backus-Naur Form](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backus%E2%80%93Naur_form).

Though it is based on the Intel SDK's Ocaml Yacc input file
[Parser.mly](https://github.com/intel/linux-sgx/blob/master/sdk/edger8r/linux/Parser.mly),
it more accurrately mirrors oedger8r's hand-written EDL Parser
([parser.cpp](https://github.com/openenclave/oeedger8r-cpp/blob/master/parser.cpp)).

# Conventions

Keywords in EDL are enclosed in double quotes.
E.g: `"enclave" "import"`.

Operators in EDL are are represented in single quotes.
E.g: `'{' ',' '*'`.

Comments and white-spaces are assumed to be removed by the lexer.

Lexer supplied two kinds of tokens, in addition to keywords and operators:
- `identifier` A sequence of alphanumeric characters or '_' that starts with a character or '_'.
   Valid identifiers in EDL are valid C language identifiers.
- `integer` A sequence of digits. EDL does not support octal and hexadecimal integers.

> Each `non-termial` is defined via `production` of the form

Reviewer: Is this non-terminal or non-termial?

Author: non-terminal. Fixed.

```c
     non-termial = expression
```
where `expression` consists of one or more `non-terminal`s or tokens.

> `+` Indicates one or more occurance of the preceeding symbol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`+` Indicates one or more occurrence of the preceding symbol.
```

Author: Fixed.

> `*` Indicates zero or more occurance of the preceesing symbol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`*` Indicates zero or more occurrence of the preceding symbol.
```

Author: Fixed.

    | "count" = attribute_value
    | "size" = attribute_value

attribute_value = integer | identifier

type_expr = [atype] [pointer]

atype = ["const"] (atype1 | atype2)

atype1 = "unsigned" integer_type
    | integer_type
    | "long" "double"

integer_type =
    | "long" "long" ["int"]
    | "long" ["int"]
    | "short" ["int"]
    | "char" ["int"]
    | "int"

atype2 =
    | "enum" identifier
    | "struct" identifier
    | "union" identifier
    | "bool"
    | "void"
    | "wchar_t"
    | "size_t"
    | "int8_t"
    | "int16_t"
    | "int32_t"
    | "int64_t"
    | "uint8_t"
    | "uint16_t"
    | "uint32_t"
    | "uint64_t"
    | "float"

pointer =
    '*'
    | '*' pointer

array_dimension = '[' (integer | identifier) ']'

trusted_section = "trusted" '{' trusted_function* '}' ';'

trusted_function =
    "public" function_declaration [allow_list] [trusted_suffixes] ';'

allow_list = "allow" '(' identifier_list ')'

untrusted_section =
    "untrusted" '{' untrusted_function* '}' [untrusted_suffixes] ';'

function_declaration = atype identifier parameter_list

parameter_list =
    '(' "void" ')'
    | '(' ')'

>     | '(' declaration  ( ',' declaration )* ')'

Reviewer 2: should there be ';' at the end?

Author: So the semi-colon is added at the end of `trusted_function` and `untrusted_function` productions.
This is because,
- after the parameter list, untrusted functions can have `transition_using_threads` and `propagate_errno` suffixes and then a semi-colon.
- after parameter list, trusted functions can have an allow list (which doesn't apply for OE since reentrant ecalls are not supported, and hence OE warns about allow lists), as well as `transition_using_threads` suffix.

`()` Paranthesis is used to group items.

`|` Indicates a choice between different productions.

## Grammar

```c

enclave_definition :  "enclave" '{' enclave_item* '}' EOF

enclave_item :
    include_statement
    | import_statement
    | from_import_statement
    | enum_declaration
    | struct_declaration
    | union_declaration
    | trusted_section
    | untrusted_section

include_statement: "include" string

import_statement: "import" string

from_import_statement: "from" string "import" imported_items ';'

imported_items =
    '*'
    | identifier_list

identifier_list = identifier ( ',' identifier )*

enum_declaration =
    "enum" [identifier] '{' enumeration_item ( ',' enumeration_item )* '}' ';'

enumeration_item =
    | identifier = integer | identifier
    | identifier

struct_declaration = "struct" '{' ( declaration ';' ) * '}' ';'

union_declaration = "union" '{' ( declaration ';' ) * '}' ';'

declaration = [attributes] type_expr identifier [array_dimension+]

attributes = '[' attribute ( ',' attribute )* ']'

attribute =
    "in" | "out" | "string" | "wstring" | "isptr" | "isary" | "user_check"
    | "count" = attribute_value

>     | "size" = attribute_value

Reviewer 2: can we differentiate the use of `count` and `size`? do you think we can add something here?

Author: Good point. Introduced a `size_or_count` non-terminal. Also the = needs to be `=`
